Hello welcome back to the course on Tablo and the previous tutorial we looked at action filters in dashboards
and today we will look at how we can apply highlighting to dashboards and also we will discuss why highlighting
is actually different to filtering.
So let's get straight to it.
Here we've got the dashboard that we're using last time and still we've got the filter on the actual
filter is still applied.
So when we click on different states as you can see the scatterplot is adjusting automatically to to
just show the customers that reside in that specific state.
So now what we will do is we will go to dashboard actions and we will remove this action that we created.
So we just click Remove.
OK.
Now if we select the different states nothing happens to the scatterplot.
No the goal today is we want this sort of filtering this scatterplot we actually want to see the customers
highlighted so we want all of the dots to remain but only the relevant dots to stand out so that we
know how they compare to the rest of the customers on the scatterplot.
And so the first thing that you might want to do is you go to dashboard actions and you go to action
and you click highlight and here naturally you select map of Europe select and the target sheets or
customers kind of world map of Europe and pretty much the same thing as we did with filtering.
You click OK you click OK and then you click on a state and nothing happens and they go another step.
Nothing happened and so on.
So how come did filtering work but highlighting doesn't work.
What is the difference.
And this is an important point which a lot of people kind of don't will disregard.
Basically they don't see the difference and therefore sometimes can fall into this trap assuming that
highlighting works just as filtering but it doesn't filter the worksheet it actually just highlights
the values.
In reality it's not as simple as that.
There there's one main difference between the two and that is that filtering actually filters your data
set and therefore allows you to reconstruct the scatterplot.
So when I have filtering on and I select this state what happens in the background is Tablo selects
all the rows of the data that are relevant to this state in France which is ILDA France and it only
leaves them and then it removes all the rest of the rows in our data set that have nothing to do field
of France.
And so then the scatterplot is only working with the IL de France rose.
And it is able to create a scatterplot based on the information.
Now what happens with highlighting is that the data set is actually not filtered.
So that process is not running in the background you're not deleting any or temporary deleting any rows
from the data set which you're asking dashboard to do is plot everything.
And at the same time highlight the customers that are relevant or related to difference and that is
where the problem occurs and why is that.
Well that is because some of our customers and our daughter said are actually from many different regions
so they are customers that are ordering products both in France and in the U.K. and so on.
So one customer in this particular data set is not attached to one particular state or even country.
If you look through the data set you will find cases when customers are in different states countries
and even cities states and even countries.
So let's have a look at that quickly.
So here's our data set.
Let's quickly add a filter so Data Filter and order the data by the customer name.
So here you can see that right away Aaron for instance has ordered from Italy from the U.K. from Germany
from Netherlands from France.
And then let's say Adam here has order from Italy U.K. France and so on.
So there are multiple customers that have ordered from multiple different regions and that is what is
confusing or highlighting.
So where do we ask the dashboard to highlight everybody who has ordered from France.
It cannot just highlight for instance if we go look at Erran should should Tablo highlight Aaron or
should Tablo not highlight Aaron he has ordered from France.
But in that case if Tablo does highlight Aaron in this in the scatterplot what will happen is that we
will see his total profit so here you can see that we've got profits listed sales and the profit margin.
This is Max Llodra.
But for Erran it will be the same thing what will happen is we will see the profit the sales and the
profit margin for all of his orders that he did from all the regions and that is because once again
our daughter is not going to be filtered so the rose not relevant to Ildefonso are not going to be removed
from the DOD.
There's still going to be scatterplot.
And that is confusing Tablo So how can we highlight Aaron with his two French orders or maybe there
is two.
So this is Aron and he's made two orders from France.
But at the same time he's had a lot of orders from other places so if we highlight him then we will
be giving the user the wrong information.
We will be telling him that Arron's made this many orders altogether but in reality only two of them
are from France.
So that's why Tablo chooses not to highlight our own all in order not to mislead the user.
So what we can do in this case is we can actually change the granularity of our scatterplot in order
to include the state and that way Tablo will be able to easily operate at that level.
So let's go to the customers kind of pluck.
You can simply go to the worksheet here or you can click this button over here which is go to a worksheet
or you can click this button over here which also says go to a worksheet.
So once we're at the worksheet for the customer scatterplot what are we going to do is we're going to
change the granularity of the daughter.
Right now if you look at the bottom there's 617 marks.
Now what we're going to add is the state.
So we'll just drag state into detail and right away you can see there's more marks in fact if we go
down here now there is 1067 marks and that is because customers can be duplicated here if they are present
in multiple states.
So now when we go back to the dashboard we can see that once again there's more data here but also when
we click you can see that Tablo is easily highlighting the right data points here because it knows that
it needs to highlight all of the customers that purchased from this region or let you know made their
orders from this region.
And if they are customers that had orders from multiple regions it will only take those data points
that are relevant for those customers for these regions.
And so now Tablo is doing a great job in highlighting.
If we go to dashboard and we go to actions highlight and we click Edit you will see here that you can
actually select the target highlighting and you can select the different field.
So in this case we want what is happening is tabloid's highlighting by state.
So if we click OK that will basically be the same result as what we saw just now.
Probably one more thing is that you can adjust this highlighting so you can specify the rules here so
you can say Don't halide by state by how I by country.
And that way wherever you click in the country it will be highlighting the same customers that once
again is misleading because you kind of the users thinking that is highlighting the trouble is highlighting
the specific state although the states are all highlighted on this part of the map.
But I would probably stay away from that.
Just you do have that level of control.
In my case I'm just going to keep it all fields.
So there you go that's how highlighting works and that's how it is different to actions.
I mean two filters in trouble action filters and trouble.
So be careful of that action filters.
Just to recap action filters work at the data level.
They filter out the data and then that data is supplied to the rest of the work.
It's a..
And in your Tablo dashboard whereas filters are highlighting.
They don't.
Highlighting does not take rose out of the data and therefore it is still working the whole data set.
And so you have to be careful with the level of granularity of your different worksheets in your dashboard.
So there you go.
That is how highlighting works in Tablo.
I look for it see you next time.
And until then happy analyzing.